>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Data binding.
How do we actually communicate
between the class and the template?
There's really kinda four ways.
Before, I'd say there was kinda one main
way, and then you have like entry model,
but as a whole, most people
are familiar with the curly braces.
But if you have a value, on a component
class that you want to send in to your
template, you communicate
that via property binding.
But then if something
happens in your template, and
you want to communicate it back to the
component, you do that via event binding.
And so
these are essentially one way streets.
Let me see what my next slide is here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I guess I thought
I had, it might be in another one.
But, so template, or
class over here to template.
We're basically passing
properties into the template.
If something happens in the template,
we pass the event back into the class for
processing.
So these are one way streets.
Class to template, template to class.
Now the question is, brain bender,
what happens when you combine?
If you take two one way streets and
you put them together, what do you have?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yeah, and so
you'll see here.
Entry model is one of
the most common ones.
Initially, there was not going to be two
way data binding, and enough people,
let their voices be heard.
And so they said, well, we have going this
way let's just combine them together.
And so when you see what's called,
banana in a box,
if you will, is you have the brackets and
then the parentheses.
What this allows it to do is bind to the
property on the class, so it automatically
updates, but if it changes, then it will
communicate that change back to the class.
And so really,
two way data binding is just two one
way data bindings combined together.
I actually like to call this an angular
hug, so, that's kind of how that happens.
So, what we have here is template class,
property binding and event binding.
I think I lost my arrows here, but the
event binding happen from what to what?
>> Speaker 2: Template to class.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Template to class,
okay.
And then property binding is from?
Class to template.
So it's just kind of a circle.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
let's see some of this.
Over here, what do we have?
String interpolation.
It's just taking a string and
rendering it on to the template.
This is pretty much kind
of the most basic one.
Now we have e of experiments, so
we have this property e that we
want to pass into this template.
We're using property binding.
So we're saying,
on this property experiment,
we're passing in this value of e.
But then over here, we have a button.
And we say when this clicks, so
we're capturing the click,
we're saying call updateMessage.
And then from here, we have an input.
You can see that we're
binding in both places.
Does that make sense?
So one way to think of this,
is if you have an object and
you want to dynamically
access a property on it.
Wish we had a whiteboard but we do not.
So imagine you have an object.
And you say, I want to get
the value of some dynamic property.
You don’t know what it is.
It could be first name,
last name, address, whatever.
How do we do that?
With the ray notation.
So, you can say, user, a ray notation,
you can actually just pass him the
property dynamically to get that value.
And so this is how I think of property
binding, cuz you're actually accessing
the value of a property that
exists on this component.
Now when you have a function,
how do you call it?
So if I had a function called run,
well, let's just say Hello World, and
I traced it out in the console,
just console log, Hello World.
What's it going to output?
The body of the function.
So it's not calling it.
A function is an object.
I'm tracing out the object.
How do I call, Hello World?
Parentheses.
Once you put the parentheses on it,
that method is going to get called, and
it's actually gonna trace
out the result of it.
And so this is how I think of events.
Capture it with parentheses.
So, brackets for array,
parentheses for event calls.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: If you can believe it,
I think we're in the homestretch.
So, this comes up a lot.
What about directives?
So, a component is
a directive with a template.
A directive is actually
a kind of a superset
of a component that provides
functionality to an element, but
it doesn't provide a template with it.
So what it's doing is taking
an existing element on the page, and
essentially augmenting that.
So you're basically saying
a directive is behavior only,
not behavior and view,
if that makes sense.
So, there's certain things,
like let's say you had an item
on the page that you wanted to attach
some kind of styling to it, dynamically.
That would be a good case of a directive.
A router link is a good example of that.
Is that it will basically take and
take an existing element and
attach the link to it.
It's not inserting a new template,
it's just taking the thing that's already
there and augmenting the behavior.
NGF is actually another example of this.
NGF what does that look like?
Or NG4.
It doesn't look like anything,
it looks like whatever template it's on.
So that's the difference is that
a component has a template,
a directive does not.
So it kind of broke my heart, but
they deprecated the blink tag.
Somebody could bring this back,
if they wanted.
And how would do this is, write
a blink directive, insert the element,
that it's on, so this is element rev, and
then attach the blink functionality and
get the party started.
And so this is an example of,
I don't want to add in a new view.
What I wanna do is take
this existing thing, and
I want it to blink like it's 1999.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So this is it,
it just has a selector, not a template.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay,
really close to homestretch now.
This is pretty easy,
a component is system what?
A class and a template.
That's a metadata.
Well, this is really easy with a service,
it's just a class.
And what you wanna do it's
keep your business logic,
everything as much as you
can into your services.
And you want your components
to do one of two things.
Consume just enough data
to satisfy the template,
capture user events and
delegate it back to the services.
So you want your services to be rich,
your components to be thin clients.
One thing I will say is,
you technically do not have to
use injectable metadata, but
there's some weird cases, it'll break.
So just the recommended thing
is always use injectable.
And this is it, what do we have here?
Well, it's a class.
A little bit of dependency
injection with a method.
And so, by the time we get to components,
and kinda work through that,
we'll get to the services thing, and
it's like, all right, you know what to do.
And it's gonna actually be a very short
module, because this is just a class.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So what NG 4 worked
with ES 5 syntax.
Like in angle GS entry repeat.
No, I don't, they do not have
an equivalent to that, so it is very much,
yes, kind of all the way.